# OpenCitations Meta Software

OpenCitations Meta will contain bibliographic metadata associated with the documents involved in the citations stored in the OpenCitations infrastructure. The OpenCitations Meta Software performs two main actions, a data curation of the CSV files that are provided and the generation of new RDF files compliant with the OpenCitations Data Model.

An example of a raw CSV input file can be found in ["example.csv"](https://github.com/opencitations/meta/blob/master/example.csv).

The software is launched through the ["run_process.py"](https://github.com/opencitations/meta/blob/master/run_process.py) file via the prompt command:
```console
    python -m meta.run_process -c <PATH> -v <PATH> -i <PATH> -a <PATH> -s <PATH>
```
Where:
- -c : directory where raw CSV files are stored.
- -v : directory where cleaned CSVs will be stored.
- -i : directory where cleaned indices will be stored (indices are products of CSV cleaning step, necessary for RDFs creation).
- -a : path of txt file containing processed CSV list.
- -s : Data source URL, not mandatory.

So far, preprocessing functions dedicated to the management of data coming from Crossref have also been implemented. As preprocessing these functions must be performed before running "process.py".

The preliminary step, ["index\_orcid\_doi.py"](https://github.com/opencitations/meta/blob/master/orcid/index_orcid_doi.py), inside ["orcid"](https://github.com/opencitations/meta/blob/master/orcid) package, generates an index between the author's ORCID and the DOI of the publication, in CSV format starting from the dump of the ORCID summaries:
```console
    python -m meta.orcid.index_orcid_doi -c <PATH> -s <PATH>
```
Where:
- -c output CSV file path, that is, the ORCID-DOI index.
- -s orcid summaries dump path, subfolder will be considered too

Then, real pre-processing is launched through the ["run_preprocess.py"](https://github.com/opencitations/meta/blob/master/run_preprocess.py) file via the prompt command:
```console
    python -m meta.run_preprocess -c <PATH> -o <PATH> -v <PATH> -w <PATH>
```
where:
- -c : Crossref JSON files directory (input files).
- -o : ORCID-DOI index filepath, generated by ["index\_orcid\_doi.py"](https://github.com/opencitations/meta/blob/master/orcid/index_orcid_doi.py).
- -v : directory where CSVs will be stored.
- -w : path of a CSV file containing what DOI to process, not mandatory.